HPCMP CREATE(TM)-AV yogiMPI

Copyright Â© 2020, U.S. Army Engineering Research and Development Center,
Information Technology Laboratory (ERDC-ITL). The U.S. Government retains
certain rights in this software.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of yogiMPI, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The names of the U.S. Government, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the
Engineer Research and Development Center, and the Information Technology
Laboratory may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.  Nor may the names of its
contributors be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE U.S. ARMY ENGINEER RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
CENTER, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (ERDC-ITL) "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ERDC-ITL OR THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM
OR DAMAGES, WHETHER DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

YogiMPI was developed by Stephen Adamec of the HPCMP CREATE(TM) program through
the U.S. Army Engineering Research and Development Center, Information
Technology Laboratory (ERDC-ITL),
https://www.erdc.usace.army.mil/Locations/ITL/.

You are under no obligation whatsoever to provide any bug fixes, patches, or
upgrades to the features, functionality or performance of the source code
("Enhancements") to anyone; however, if you choose to make your Enhancements
available either publicly, or directly to ERDC-ITL, without imposing a separate
written license agreement for such Enhancements, then you hereby grant the
following license: a non-exclusive, royalty-free perpetual license to install,
use, modify, prepare derivative works, incorporate into other computer software,
distribute, and sublicense such enhancements or derivative works thereof, in
binary and source code form.
